# Dark Souls 2 Important Loot Sheet
A checklist of items I find significant to a playthrough of DS2 and DS2: SOTFS. The items are sorted in order of difficulty to acquire, lower items in a section are considered more "late-game". Difficulty correlates to the number of bosses you need to defeat to access the item, you can collect many of these shards even before clearing some of these areas.

## Dark Souls 2: Scholar of the First Sin
### Sublime Bone Dust x5
*Burn at Majula bonfire. Each upgrade increases the health restoration of the Estus Flask by 50 HP. The maximum Estus Flask bonus is +5. After it is reached, the dust can still be obtained in new games but trying to upgrade the flasks further will only show a dialog telling you "Cannot burn further items". However, it is not entirely useless as it can be sold to Lonesome Gavlan for 1,800 souls each.*
- [ ] **1 - Majula**: Wear the Silvercat Ring and drop down to the lowest platform of the pit in the middle of Majula. Before the Gutter there will be a water-filled area with exploding mummies, the item is in the metal chest where the Great Heal Excerpt used to be in DS2.
- [ ] **2 - No-man's Wharf**: In the passages from Heide's Tower of Flame after the Tower of Flame bonfire above the Dragonrider boss, but before taking the elevator downwards.
- [ ] **3 - Shaded Woods**: Use a Fragrant Branch of Yore to restore Rosabeth of Melfia to human form to access the area. From the Shaded Ruins bonfire, go up the ramp and make a jump to the area with a ruined building and a petrified lion warrior.
- [ ] **4 - Huntsman's Copse**: From the Bridge Approach bonfire, head to the domed building on the right containing Soul Spear after the first bridge.
- [ ] **5 - Drangleic Castle**: After entering the castle go behind the curving staircases to a hallway with knights, make a left turn to a knight guarding a door, will be behind the door in a metal chest.

### Estus Flask Shard x12
- [ ] **1 - Majula**: Next to the big gaping pit is a well with a large rock resting on the edge of it. Attacking the rock will cause a corpse holding the shard to be pulled up by the rope.
- [ ] **2 - Forest of Fallen Giants**: On the platform where you can first meet the The Pursuer near the Cardinal Tower bonfire. One of the corpses is holding a shard.
- [ ] **3 - Majula**: Use the House Key given by Cale the Cartographer in the Forest of Fallen Giants to unlock the mansion in Majula by the pit. Once inside the mansion, head to the basement. Defeat the Skeleton and continue forward to find the shard on some skeletal remains.
- [ ] **4 - Things Betwixt**: On the path to Majula, bring a Fragrant Branch of Yore and unpetrify the Undead Traveler blocking the third fog gate. Knock down the tree platform to cross the gap and find a pit. Drop down to find 3 Basilisks and the shard.
- [ ] **5 - Shaded Woods**: Use a Fragrant Branch of Yore to restore Rosabeth of Melfia to human form. After pulling the lever and entering the next room, the shard can be found inside a metal chest which lies in a room on the ground floor and right side of the stairs.
- [ ] **6 - No-man's Wharf**: In the watery passage after going down the elevator between Heide's Tower of Flame and No-man's Wharf in a room with a Basilisk, there's a petrified hollow blocking stairs. Use a Fragrant Branch of Yore to get past him and pick up the shard on the corpse nearby.
- [ ] **7 - Huntsman's Copse**: From the Undead Lockaway bonfire, the shard is behind the dropped gate in the dark skeleton caves. You will find a Crystal Lizard and a corpse holding the shard, to reach the other side of the gate you must follow the way around from the bridge immidiately by the bonfire.
- [ ] **8 - The Gutter**: In the area with the Heide Knight Lancer and chest with visible Aurous set, climb the long ladder upwards and the Shard will be at the top, on a corpse. It's near the zip-line. It is difficult to provide written instructions for this shard, so please refer to the video at this link made by someone other than me: https://youtu.be/S8L-R_9YFsI?t=163
- [ ] **9 - The Lost Bastille**: From the Exile Holding Cells bonfire after completing the No Man's Wharf area, progress until you reach a ladder on the wall. Descend the ladder to a courtyard and follow the wall to the left. On the other side of the destructible wooden scaffolding there is a narrow path which leads around the building to a metal chest holding the shard. Alternatively, you may reach the same courtyard after defeating the Ruin Sentinels boss fight. Proceeding from the bonfire after the boss fight, drop down from a roof to an area with a well and dogs. From this area continue to a dark room with exploding mummies that leads to the same courtyard.
- [ ] **10 - Brightstone Cove Tseldora**: Descend the stairs from the Chapel Threshold bonfire and continue until you reach the area overlooking the quick-sand sinkhole. Take the zipline down to the next platform and follow it to the right to a ledge dropping to the building with a Hollow Mage, two exploding barrels, and a corpse on top of the roof. Inside the same building is the shard.
- [ ] **11 - Drangleic Castle**: From the Central Castle Drangleic bonfire, head down the hallway with the descending stairs. This path leads to a small circular room containing; a platform that will later rise, a locked door which leads to the Looking Glass Knight, and a ladder. Climb the ladder and enter the room containing seven Stone Soldiers and a large golem statue. Activate the golem by defeating an enemy in close proximity to it, and progress through the passage until you arrive at a large entryway decorated with numerous knight statues. From this grand entryway, head outside and down a set of stairs which leads to an armory room. Adjacent to the lever which activates the exit is a metal chest containing the shard.
- [ ] **12 - Shrine of Amana**: From the Crumbled Ruins bonfire, progress until you encounter the Ogre enemy. Behind the Ogre is a series of pillars which indicate the path to the shard. Carrying a lit torch will make it much easier to navigate the treacherous pathway without falling to your death. The estus shard will be near the end of this pathway on a corpse behind a pillar, and just before the metal chest containing the Sunlight Blade Miracle.

## Dark Souls 2
### Sublime Bone Dust x5
*Burn at Majula bonfire. Each upgrade increases the health restoration of the Estus Flask by 50 HP. The maximum Estus Flask bonus is +5. After it is reached, the dust can still be obtained in new games but trying to upgrade the flasks further will only show a dialog telling you "Cannot burn further items". However, it is not entirely useless as it can be sold to Lonesome Gavlan for 1,800 souls each.*
- [ ] **1 - Heide's Tower of Flame**: Kill the second Old Knight in the area, right after the Heide's Ruin bonfire.
- [ ] **2 - Sinner's Rise**: From the bonfire named "The Saltfort", go down the ladder and take the elevator to the bottom level with the standing water. The item will be on your left after entering the doorway to the area filled with water.
- [ ] **3 - Huntsman's Copse**: Make your way to the bridge leading to the Executioners Chariot boss fight. Before the fog-gate to the boss, make a jump from the end of the bridge to the item on the right.
- [ ] **4 - Iron Keep**: In a chest within the area immidiately after killing the Old Iron King.
- [ ] **5 - Black Gulch**: In a chest within the area immidiately after killin the Rotten.

### Estus Flask Shard x12
- [ ] **1 - Majula**: Next to the big gaping pit is a well with a large rock resting on the edge of it. Attacking the rock will cause a corpse holding the shard to be pulled up by the rope.
- [ ] **2 - Forest of Fallen Giants**: From the Cardinal Tower bonfire, go up the stairs until you reach a wooden door. Simple attack it to break through. Continue through the room filled with boxes and barrels to find a room with a tree growing through a hole in the floor. The shard is inside the metal treasure chest in the same room.
- [ ] **3 - Majula**: Use the House Key given by Cale the Cartographer in the Forest of Fallen Giants to unlock the mansion in Majula by the pit. Once inside the mansion, head to the basement. Defeat the Skeleton and continue forward to find the shard on some skeletal remains.
- [ ] **4 - No-man's Wharf**: Far below the lever that summons the ship, is a stone house with a wooden door. Inside the house are two sleeping soldiers and several tall jars filled with poison. The metal chest containing the shard is in the corner.
- [ ] **5 - The Lost Bastille**: From the Exile Holding Cells bonfire after completing the No Man's Wharf area, progress until you reach a ladder on the wall. Descend the ladder to a courtyard and follow the wall to the left. On the other side of the destructible wooden scaffolding there is a narrow path which leads around the building to a metal chest holding the shard. Alternatively, you may reach the same courtyard after defeating the Ruin Sentinels boss fight. Proceeding from the bonfire after the boss fight, drop down from a roof to an area with a well and dogs. From this area continue to a dark room with exploding mummies that leads to the same courtyard.
- [ ] **6 - Shaded Woods**: Use a Fragrant Branch of Yore to restore Rosabeth of Melfia to human form and access the Shaded Woods. After pulling the lever and entering the next room, the shard can be found inside a metal chest which lies in a room on the ground floor and right side of the stairs.
- [ ] **7 - Shaded Woods**: Use a Fragrant Branch of Yore to restore Rosabeth of Melfia to human form and access the Shaded Woods. From the Shaded Ruins bonfire after the foggy forest, head to the wooden floor trap before the the fort which drops into an area containing several Basilisk enemies and yellow pools. Use the Fang Key to unlock the door concealing Weaponsmith Ornifex, and the shard will be on the ground in plain sight.
- [ ] **8 - Brightstone Cove Tseldora**: In the room preceding the Prowling Magus & Congregation boss, there is an illusory wall across from the door leading into the room. The shard is on a corpse hanging out of a window.
- [ ] **9 - Brightstone Cove Tseldora**: Descend the stairs from the Chapel Threshold bonfire and continue until you reach the area overlooking the quick-sand sinkhole. Take the zipline down to the next platform and follow it to the right to a ledge dropping to the building with a Hollow Mage, two exploding barrels, and a corpse on top of the roof. Inside the same building is the shard.
- [ ] **10 - Harvest Valley**: From The Mines bonfire, make your way to the Covetous Demon boss room. Make a right immideately after passing the poison jars into a hallway with dirty water, the shard as at the end of the hallway.
- [ ] **11 - Drangleic Castle**: From the Central Castle Drangleic bonfire, head down the hallway with the descending stairs. This path leads to a small circular room containing; a platform that will later rise, a locked door which leads to the Looking Glass Knight, and a ladder. Climb the ladder and enter the room containing seven Stone Soldiers and a large golem statue. Activate the golem by defeating an enemy in close proximity to it, and progress through the passage until you arrive at a large entryway decorated with numerous knight statues. From this grand entryway, head outside and down a set of stairs which leads to an armory room. Adjacent to the lever which activates the exit is a metal chest containing the shard.
- [ ] **12 - Shrine of Amana**: From the Crumbled Ruins bonfire, progress until you encounter the Ogre enemy. Behind the Ogre is a series of pillars which indicate the path to the shard. Carrying a lit torch will make it much easier to navigate the treacherous pathway without falling to your death. The estus shard will be near the end of this pathway on a corpse behind a pillar, and just before the metal chest containing the Sunlight Blade Miracle.
